---
title: Tetris is management
date: 2022-01-10 17:30:47.625000000 Z
---

All right, so let's see if this is fully caught. Doesn't make a difference, just touched the headphones. Alright so this is my interpretation of Tetris, or attempt to use Tetris, as a analogy for time management. So first of all, our magic that I'm putting up on the screen, a game of Tetris a video. And this one, describing Tetris is a game where you control pieces as they move down, and you're able and you control them and you can place them in a way that completes a level so you're building a building, let's say. And when you successfully complete a level, it disappears and you move on to the next level. When you are when you fail to complete a level, leaving any one or more spaces, empty that level cannot disappear, or any level on top of it until. Yeah, that level cannot disappear so only levels that you complete without leaving any holes can actually disappear. So, you're clearly building something. And when the game is telling you when you complete a level, a horizontal level of blocks, you move on to the next that's completed. It's not a perfect analogy, the pieces, the blocks, you are manipulating are your energy and your resources, your people and your infrastructure thinks that you can actually manage. And the descent of the pieces that you have no control over his time. So time at advances, whether you like it or not. The game shows you, And sometimes it feels that time happens quicker passes quickly and sometimes it's slow, sometimes you have. Sometimes you have more time. Sorry for the redundancy to arrange your resources. And sometimes you have to do it quicker, and you make more mistakes, which can lead to making more mistakes. That is an analogy from Tetris. Two, as managers, well we can actually manage that what we can.

