---
title: Venezuela vs usa painpoint
date: 2022-01-10 17:30:47.687000000 Z
---

I was greatly influenced by the time I lived in the United States and in Venezuela as a child, and the contrast of both places.

I was born in Caracas, Venezuela. When I was around one year old, my mother separated from my father and brought to Miami, Florida, where we lived until I was eight years old.  During that time, I spoke a little bit of Spanish at home, but my strong language was English. 

I have fond memories of my time in Miami. My pre-school's play ground. My first grade teachers and friends at Carter Elementary School. I remember having a lemonade stand outside the apartment unit where we lived on the University of Miami grounds. I remember being happy.  I also remember 

My mother and I returned to Venezuela when I was eight. I looked Venezuelan. I was a brown kid, black hair, brown eyes. But I didn't speak much Spanish and I spoken with a heavy American accent. My first school was a Jewish school, which doesn't exist anymore. And I remember loving it, really enjoying it, my friends and play. Remember learning, Hebrew, but I'm not Jewish, I'm Catholic. 

then my mom put me in a bigger school, which was a Catholic priest run school called Santo Tomás de Aquino. And there was 30 or 40 kids per class, while in the Jewish school that was 15. And there were. It was a different feeling less of a small family feel, and more of being one more pack. And then my mom moved me to another school, he said, of course, which was also Catholic, but much more conservative OPOs day.

Chaos in Venezuela.

should be met, which was the same that a was in the United States. So it was very clear that we should have water every day that we should have electricity every day that people should behave in this way, drive in this way, open and close doors or, you know, and police and institutions and banks should work in a way you were created for that. It regularly fell short. And it was very difficult, impossible to predict with certainty, people's behavior, institutional response

and that that difference I learned later in college and with other life experiences as multiple ramifications, as well, it has already cultural origins. One of the cultural elements I've learned, that makes a big difference, and this is what makes a big difference in determining these two realities. Is locus of control is a belief It's a shared belief by a community, Society of a people of what determines What happens He said something that is inside of them, or outside of them, or a hybrid a little bit above is reality, everything that happens outside of you, within your control, the locus of control, do you have control of everything that happens outside? Or is it outside of you? Meaning that what happens in your life is really out of your hands. Your hands, your life is in the hands of other people, or God or chance, but not in your heads. Your destiny does not depend on you

This is a test, are you picking up the audio for Bluetooth for about 10 seconds working better. I'm gonna give it a try. So, continuing with the idea that Venezuela. Stage experiences, difference between an orderly society that I had witnessed in the United States, and a chaotic society that I was seeing in high school administrators meant in a chaotic society. More people suffer continuously. And in a orderly society, less people suffer continuously. And what I mean by this is levels of poverty

that keep people from having dignified, access to education, basic education, food, or health, transportation. In Venezuela, the contrast and everyday life between somebody who has access to these things which was between 10 and 20% of their population, and somebody who does not, which was 89% of the population was visually striking. And I wasn't that 10% Barely. Because of my mother's education mostly allowed her to race me by herself with an income that allowed her to put me through private school, and send me to college. And, you know, give me everything I needed without any luxuries. If I had any luxuries they were, because of my grandmother. I remember finding my first car. Actually she bought me my second car when I bought my first car, which was a cheaper one. But then my mother and my grandmother paid for more expensive but Toyota Corolla. So, The difference between Venezuela and the states in terms of how many people are suffering or striking and was a personal and still a pain point for me, that has driven me

add my pursue in my professional career and personal career and that's why my professional career has been so personal to me. I've been trying to recreate what I saw in the United States as a child in Venezuela. And I've always been pursuing the question of why was that like that and trying to dig in the roots of why was that, and how to fix it. That has basically been the origin of my career. And it may be also because for me, I was happier in the United States. So for me the transition from the United States to Venezuela that was, I don't have while, while the context and it's well as a beautiful country, the food is delicious. The people are close and nice and always willing to connect and to help, but at the same time. It's an unsafe country where basic services are not guaranteed and democracy has not only crumbled into an authoritarian regime but I saw that as I grew up. So, in 1989, while I was still in high school, and 1982 and 89. I saw out the balcony of my apartment, how there was rioting, from one of the biggest favelas slums of a country that was called. I don't know, I got to ask my mom. I can't remember, but you could see it from my apartment windows. And while we lived in a apartment complex building that was middle class, it was very close to this humongous. Millions of people live in this slum, or shantytown or Florida, and the 99 are present one of the person of the time, raised the price of gasoline. As a fiscal adjustment that was recommended by the economic Avenue Economic Committee of the government. And it was an F, and I IMF recommended thing to do. So most macroeconomic policy. That meant that transportation went up food went up all the basic necessities went up that most of the population rely on. So there was, there were, There was a revolt a, they were riots. And their response by the government was to send out the military to control the riots. So from my balcony, I could see soldiers, laying down, taking cover shooting live ammo and killing people that were coming down from the slums towards where the supermarket, was, and the stores are. And of course some people from some of the civilians were armed and shooting back at the military and the soldiers. So that was in high school I was 1989 I saw that and then in 1992. When I was graduated the year I was in my last year of high school. I also saw a coup attempt. A rising of a military fraction, led by or, in which one of the leaders was overcharged is free us, and was at a failed attempt code. And he, and they, the objective of the coup was to overthrow government.

And part of the reasoning that motivated. This faction was what had happened in 89 of having the government. The soldiers to kill civilians, because of the riots. Riots. So that is what happened. That is a symptom of consequence something that I witnessed that that meant to me, that was the difference between a orderly society with institutions, public services, and generalized public behavior that is predictable, like what I saw the United States, up to when I was eight. And what I saw, I was witnessing in Venezuela as chaotic crumbling democracy outspread corruption institutions that were weak, incredibly aggressive inequality and extremely high levels of poverty in an oil rich country.

